All right.
So in this video we're going to install Express and make our first simple express server that we're
then going to add the API to in future videos.
So before that we're actually going to delete everything here.
I think the easiest way is just to shift click and then right click and where's that delete.
And we want to do yes to all we're going to delete everything.
So it should be totally empty.
Perfect.
And let's see if I can make that a bit larger.
That looks good.
And we're going to start off by creating a new node project.
So I'm going to make a folder first.
You could go up here right click go down to New Folder.
But I'm just going to go here and I'm going to call it to deuse API you know CD into that and then I'm
going to initialize a node application using NPM in it and it's going to ask me a couple of questions.
My package name is going to be to use API that's fine version description or entry point which is basically
the entry point to our application.
I'll leave it as the default index Jarius basically just hit enter a couple of times.
And yet that's fine.
It's probably best practice to fill out things like her author's name and a bunch of other things.
It doesn't really matter for this purpose.
So we'll hit enter and you should see in that folder we now have a package that Jason.
So this just contains data about our application.
And as we install things like Express which are due in two seconds you'll see that it shows up here
so that other people know if they're downloading our code that they need to go then fetch Express and
NPM makes it super easy.
You can do it in a single line.
So what we're going to do now is install Express which if you're not familiar it's a node web development
framework helps you get servers up and running super fast.
The nice clean syntax so that's going to be NPM install and we're going to add dash dash save which
will save a reference to it in our package.
Jason.
And then the name which is expressed That's a package we want should take a moment.
Once it finishes which I'll fast forward through we should now see under dependencies and or package
Jasen Express version and then also note modules folder which contains all this express content and
does everything Express installed for us ton of stuff and all of its own dependencies.
OK so the next thing we'll do close out of there so close that is make our index J.S..
So we're going to do touch indexed that jackassery you could right click and do that and said this to
use API.
This is going to be our main file where our server starts.
So I'm going to open that up and I'm going to just do the very basic code that we need to create the
simplest express app with one single home route.
Just slash the route and it's just going to respond with a happy face or hello world.
So first we need to require express of our express.
This is kind of the standard way to require Express and I'll change together.
Or an x variable declaration.
We're actually going to execute the contents of express function and save it to the app variable so
that we can then reference app.
This is how Express works we'll do things like listen to start the server act get to define a route.
And that should be good for now.
Leave it as that.
Then down here the very bottom I'm going to start our server with an app listen and then we need to
provide a port and the port is actually not going to be hardcoded in when we're using Cloud 9 instead
of process.
Ian v.
There's a port variable so this contains the exact port variable that we're going to serve our content
on.
If you're not working on cloud nine you might just want to make it three thousand.
It's a standard sort of local host port and then we'll add a callback function afterwards that just
cancels out logs.
App is running on ports and then all does plus process and the port just like that.
And that should be all we need to actually start our node.
Assuming you don't have a typo.
So let's do node index that jast to start our server.
And it says her app is running on port 80 80.
The only thing is there's nothing to our app right now.
It's just a server that's listening but we're not handling any requests.
We won't see anything we're not responding with anything.
So let's add in our simple simple route which is going to be app get slash So when you send a get request
to our just route route what do we want to happen.
We'll add a call back in.
This is the standard syntax request and response and we'll work with the response object.
We're going to raise that send some text.
And let's just say they're from Express just like that.
So if you request localhost 80 80 which is our port slash nothing we should respond with.
Hi there from Express.
And we should get to go.
Let's see if we get that.
We will need to restart our server and then we need to go can either go to preview again preview running
application or if you have it open already.
Refresh the page and we get high there from Express.
But if we go to slash anything else we get an error because we haven't defined any code for those routes
so that's pretty much all we'll do.
In this case would just show you if your new Express could add in another route say slash Hello.
This one says actually Helo's kind of obvious.
How about slash happy and we'll just respond with a happy face.
Restart our server.
Here we go.
Nothing changes but if you go to slash happy we get a happy face.
Anything else is a problem.
So we'll leave it at that.
We have our most basic possible express app up and running.
We require Express.
We execute it to a variable that we can then use later on like we did here here and here.
We find two routes which were going to delete the next video and then we also started up the server
using the process that in outport variable that cloud 9 provides for us and if we wanted to we actually
could clean this up a bit and defined a new variable up here called Port Said it equaled a process in
the port or 3000.
So if you're running this code on your own machine locally and you don't have this defined it will default
to 3000 and then down here we'll just replace that with port and everything should work exactly the
same.
Perfect.
All right.
Moving on we're going to now talk about defining our routes getting Mongo installed working with our
database.